---
layout: post
title: "Domesticity and Domestication"
date: 2018-11-25
excerpt: "Don't ever talk to me or my son ever again."
tags: [Louisa Hall,Speak,Domestic]
comments: true
---


A recurring theme in Louisa Hall’s /Speak/ is domesticity and the home. The structure of a family is always in question, whether it is humans’ relationships with each other, pets, or technology, although the premise of the book makes the relationship with technology the focus.

Stephen Chin destroyed his home; he had lost his wife and daughter, as well as his freedom. The Dettmans were a broken home since they’d had marital problems for a long time. Gaby’s home was broken by her sickness. Turing had an unconventional home because his only family was the mother of a late friend from his childhood. Mary was forced to marry young and to move to an entirely new place.

All of these things were the center of these characters’ conflict. Chin’s memoirs are about how his life had fallen apart and how he had ended up in jail, and a lot of that followed his relationship with Dolores and their daughter. The Dettman’s letters follows the deterioration of their marriage. The transcripts of Gaby’s conversations with MARY3 talked about her strained relationship with her mother and how she felt no one could understand the grief she felt. All of Turing’s letters were to Chris’s mother and he rarely spoke of anyone else. Mary writes in her journal about her relationships with her dog, her fiance, and her parents. For each of their parts in the book, they dealt with their home, their domestic role, and the role that technology played in those developments.

The home in the book is disturbed by technology. Chin’s family fell apart because of his dedication to the development of the babybots and the seduction equation. The Dettman’s marriage had a history of dysfunctionality but it was Ruth’s fascination with the bot MARY that pushed it over the edge. Gaby’s illness was caused by her babybot being taken away. Turing’s life was actually not disrupted by technology, but his dedication to his studies, the development of his machine, and the war prevented him from building a home beyond Chris’s mother for a long time.

But in the domesticity of the book, there is the domestication of the technology. Domestication can easily be seen in Mary’s case because of Ralph. Ralph is a literally domesticated animal that she adopted as a part of her family. Gaby and her babybot had a bond like no other, that when it was broken, her loss was so deep it made her sick. Ruth bonded with and treated MARY almost like a daughter and replaced her affection for her husband for the bot. 

/Speak/ is about how different people’s lives are affected by technology. Technology not only affects their lives, but it is a major part of it. It is integrated into their homes.
