---
layout: post
title: "I'd've Killed the Glitch"
date: 2018-11-11
excerpt: "Nonhuman characteristics of technology break the illusion that we're interacting with other people."
tags: [Black Mirror,Owen Harris,AI,]
comments: true
---


Watching the Black Mirror episode ‘Be Right Back’ made me think about how people interact with technology, especially technology that is meant to mimic humans. The technology we have nowadays is nowhere near the sophistication of it in Black Mirror and it definitely is not trying to mimic humans the way that the Ash-droid was, but I feel it is similar enough to draw the comparison.

There is a lot of technology around today that is meant to have some human qualities to make interactions with it easier and more accessible. For example, Alexa and Siri answer questions with human voices and in colloquial language. The artificially intelligent robot Sofia is given a human face to make her seem less frightening. The premise of this episode does not seem to be too far fetched on that front. However, how we interact with the technology is completely different from how Martha interacts with the Ash-droid.

We treat technology as something disposable. The fact that it has human qualities and that it even feels like it has a personality does not stop us from moving on to upgrades. Siri lives in an iPhone, but every year people move on to different models and even change her voice and accent depending on their preferences. There is a desensitization associated with this that gets translated into concern for people treating each other with the same expendability. I realize this is different from the Ash-droid because the Ash-droid is hyperrealistic and the connection between Martha and Ash already existed and was amplified by her grief, but there were enough moments in the episode that jarred her immersion in the technology. For example, when the Ash-droid would look up information online to give to Martha or when it wouldn’t know things about Ash because he never uploaded it. This happened enough times that Martha was aware that it wasn’t quite Ash.

This changed when the Ash-droid got a physical body. Having Ash’s face and his voice and even some of his personality was enough to let both Martha and the audience suspend their disbelief for some time. However, even with his face and body the Ash-droid was still definitely not human, let alone Ash. The Ash-droid doesn’t breathe, sleep, eat, or display any other human behavior. It even does things explicitly not human that would have, and eventually do take Martha out of the immersion: the Ash-droid alters its body on command as it learns new information about Ash, it can turn its erection on and off, and it can’t stray too far away from its ‘administrator.’ All of these non-human quirks are enough to convince Martha that she actually cannot have Ash after he’s died no matter how advanced the technology was.

The non-human qualities of the Ash-droid and her frustrations with its personality all add up to Martha deciding to get rid of it. Here is where the story loses consistency and deviates from what I understand about people and emotions. Before the Ash-droid can jump, Martha tells it that the real Ash would have fought to stay alive, which prompts it to start begging for its life. Martha, by this point of the episode, was already aware of the fact that the Ash-droid was just a machine and even resented it for not being human. With the space that she’d put between her and the Ash-droid, it should have felt like an insult for it to cry and beg the way it did. If it were me, I would have pushed it anyway, but Martha felt guilty for trying to kill it and ended up keeping it. I understand Martha going through with it would have made her seem monstrous and that it was probably really hard to see her late husband’s face beg for a second chance at life. But she had already moved past the fact that the Ash-droid mimicked Ash in only superficial ways and that the machine was only ‘performing’ Ash.

Understanding the distance between technology and people today and considering the distance Martha had put between her and the Ash-droid, I don’t see why she couldn’t go through with making it jump off the cliff. I’d like to say that I wouldn’t have had a problem with it, but that’s easy to say when I can’t exactly imagine a world in which this would actually happen to me.
