---
layout: post
title: "Nick Montfort"
date: 2018-12-11
excerpt: "Poetry as all the ways language can be manipulated."
tags: [Nick Montfort,Poetry,Jabberwocky,Ursonate]
comments: true
---
Nick Montfort is a highly capable coder with an affinity for poetry. His computational poetry is particularly fascinating to me because he, as a poet, believes poetry isn’t about intent or feeling, but rather about the art of manipulating language. By writing the code to write poetry, he has tried to remove himself from the poem and lets the art stand alone. Although this was the first time I saw it in computational form, this is hardly the first time I’ve seen these poetics at work.

Montfort’s poetic style is what I would call nonsense poetry. A lot of his work is traditional, regardless of its computation, in the sense that there are words put together that can be read, interpreted, and felt on a deep and comprehensible way. But at the presentation, he used a program called Pearl in front of us to show how quickly the bot can turn out the poetry. These poems were made up of lines of made-up words that fit the phonetic and lexical patterns of 3 to 4 letter words in the English language.

This reminded of very similar poetics from two different poets. This struck me as similar to Kurt Schwitters’ book of poes, Ursonate. Ursonate is made up entirely of nonsense sounds. There are no words, but rather a collection of letters that when read do not make sense. However, this is a beautifully written set of poems, not only because of the aesthetic nature of the collection of letters, but also because when reading the poem, without understanding any of what it says, it mimics language closely enough to evoke reactions. It also reminded me of Lewis Carroll’s famous poem, Jabberwocky. This poem also explores nonsense words that follow the rules of English language and could almost be words, without committing to fixed meaning. This was also a geniusly written poem because Carroll’s made up words were written in a way that could be interpreted with meaning well enough for people to understand and relate to it.

The main difference between Urosnate and Jabberwocky and Montfort’s Pearl program is that Montfort’s poems were computed. The Pearl program also created four letter words that could be interpreted and admired for its likeness to the English language, but they were written without intent. It is not needed, especially because in this style of poetics, meaning does not matter. Instead what matters is to practice and observe how language can be manipulated. But Montfort, wishes to completely separate himself from his work with the program serving as a divider. Similarly to how nonsense words don’t commit to meaning, Montfort won’t commit to his poetry.

I can understand that Montfort wants to credit his code for his poetry and that what he is doing is actually great for art and how we interpret it. I have no doubt computational poetry will grow as an acceptable, valid experimental artform that will provide needed insight into what we find beautiful and what we assign meaning to. But I think I would like Montfort and his poetry more if he owned that he is a poet as well as a coder. Then we could appreciate and criticize his art as with any other.
