---
layout: post
title: "The Superior Storytelling Medium: WE LOVE FORTNITE"
date: 2018-12-02
excerpt: "Musical theatre is still my favorite, but for reals like damn."
tags: [Oxenfree,Video Games,Storytelling]
comments: true
---


After a week’s discussion about video games, I decided I wanted to play more myself, having come to the conclusion that I never games a fair shot. I played a video game called Oxenfree, a story of a girl who goes to an island with her best friend and her new stepbrother for a small party and finds that things aren’t how they appear. After this experience and the discussions we’d had in class I decided video games are the best medium for storytelling, because games can use all the things that make other mediums so great at once.

Video games have the auditory and visual appeal films have. A major appeal of gaming even without considering a story is the technical side of it. Popular games are often praised for their beautiful design, art, and sound. Even in games where one of these might be absent, they work together to create a fully aesthetic and immersive experience. The only other place I’d seen this be such a staple is in film. Editing and visual as well as auditory effects are a major part of the storytelling in film. How a story is presented to an audience is very important and gaming and film have this feature in common.

Video games have the emotional nuance books have. Thoughts and emotions that are described by a narrator in a book cannot always be translated into film or theater. Games, on the other hand, can do this just fine, sometimes even better because of the level of involvement of the player. A reader is able to follow a protagonist through a story and can feel what they are told the protagonist feels. A player is able to play as the protagonist, /be/ the protagonist, and feel for themselves what the game wants them to feel. There are no thoughts that a reader would have to read through themselves to know because, playing as the protagonist, a player thinks that all for themselves. Which brings me to my final point of comparison.

Video games are incredibly dynamic, the way theater is. When playing a game, certain choices create a different experience and can sometimes lead to different game endings. Depending on how a game is played, different players will play a different game. Even in games with fixed endings, how the game is played will lead to a completely unique experience to the player. Different players take in the story of a game differently, as different audiences experience the same play differently. Similarly, players control the story the same way that actors do.

I had thought about how well video games could work as a medium for storytelling, but I hadn’t realized how much it could do uniquely. It is such a shame that even thought video games are very popular as a concept, its popularity doesn’t extend to its story games as it really is the superior medium.
