---
layout: post
title: "The Grind Don't Stop"
date: 2018-10-28
excerpt: "Hyperemployment beyond employment"
tags: [hyperemployment,Gregg,Bogost,Thurston,Interview]
comments: true
---

Hyperemployment is a new development in the modern world where productivity is the most important thing. Businesses prioritize it over their employees and people prioritize it over their own wellbeing. The reason for this is that there is an understanding from all parties that a solid brand and constant exposure is what is needed to make a company flourish and there is pressure to hold up the company that stems from even the individuals.

In the ‘The Productivity Obsession’ and ‘Hyperemployment’ articles, so much is said about how work cuts into leisure, leaving the employed to feel overworked and overstressed. This can be seen in the ‘Unplug’ article where social media and networking were literally Thurston’s job and the pressure of it was so overwhelming he had to stop and unplug for 25 days. While most people’s lives aren’t normally as intense as his, there are plenty of common themes to pull from.

I reached out to a few people I knew have busy lifestyles, the pressure of which is amplified by the level of availability their different responsibilities require. What I noticed was that this overly productive phenomenon goes even beyond traditional employment and takes over other activities. One of the people I reached out to is a personal assistant to a man who runs an architectural firm. The other has a stressful life not because of her job, but because of her extracurriculars; she is on the e-board of her dance company. This was interesting to me because the pressure to constantly be productive comes from two very different places.

The personal assistant, whose name and personal details she wants to keep hidden for the sake of her employer, let me know right away that her job had a wide variety of responsibilities ranging from managing some construction projects on behalf of her boss to making breakfast for him at his residence. For this reason, her boss gave her a phone so that he could reach her at any moment. She is technically allowed to not answer in her leisure, but no matter the time of day, she feels it is compulsory to answer and to do what he says as soon as possible. As a result, most of her life is organized around the unpredictability of her job. Although living like this is frustrating and distracts from other things in her life, there is a lot of pressure due to the fact that her entire income and her future career depends on having the availability her boss demands.

Alternatively the other person I interviewed, Tess McCallum, feels immense pressure from being on the e-board of Revolve, a dance company on campus at Northeastern University, whose pay off is not money, but fulfillment of a genuine passion for dance. She is both the club’s Media Director and a choreographer to multiple numbers in their upcoming performances. She handles most of these responsibilities outside of e-board and rehearsals and it bleeds into her personal life. These responsibilities and long hours make her feel like this is a job, which is ironic considering she has a real job where she feel she has little responsibilities. Tess feels the weight of her duties to Revolve heavily influence her daily life and although this is not an actual paying job, Tess does not feel the liberty or want to ease off of this leadership role.

In both of these cases, although both girls work hard and unreasonable hours, they do not feel like they’re being taken advantage of. The personal assistant understands that she is subordinate to the man actually running the company she works for and that for that reason alone he has a reason to be as demanding as he is. She also understands that her boss is trying to build the company and that since he is an immigrant, he feels the need to work harder than other people, and as a result needs his employees to work just as hard. Tess understands that she is one of a few that runs the dance company Revolve and that if she slips in some of her responsibilities, then the entire club suffers. Revolve, much like the architecture firm, is trying to grow in popularity and in numbers, so that requires constant attention from every member of the e-board. Even though they feel overworked, they also feel like what they do deeply impacts their respective companies.

There is a sense of urgency to focus on productivity all across the board. The architecture firm needs a good reputation and rhythm that requires constant cultivation from leaders and employees alike. Revolve needs a brand that they can sell in order to build their audience which requires the same dedication. With the simultaneous promise of success and threat of failure so imminent, so much of this fortune relies on the hyperfocus from all people involved. This as a result creates an environment in which they feel like they need to constantly be working to secure the success of their company.


